Add OWD 2024 report (#137)
openwebdocs/owd-website: pages/content/reports/2024/index.md

Through the dashboard, we identified 600 Baseline widely available web features that have BCD data but are not documented on MDN. The OWD team and volunteers documented 591 of these. The remaining nine missing widely available features are WebAssembly features. OWD first addressed the 133 [missing form-related API docs](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/213). We then documented the remaining 458 missing features, including [missing DOMMatrix, DOMShapes, Error Events, and SVG interface features](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/214). A total of 591 additional pages were added to MDN, documenting all the missing non-webAssembly Baseline widely available features. At the time of this writing, there are still a few PRs left to merge, but the pages are written!

> OWD would like to thank the WebDX Community Group, specifically [Patrick Brosset](https://github.com/captainbrosset/), for the web-platform-dx/web-features-explorer, [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3) for creating the Backlog Dashboard,  [Yash Raj Bharti](https://github.com/yashrajbharti) for tackling the missing SVG API properties and methods, [Estelle Weyl](https://github.com/estelle) for documenting the other missing features, and all the MDN Maintainers for reviewing the PRs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OWD would like to thank the WebDX Community Group, specifically [Patrick Brosset](https://github.com/captainbrosset/), for the web-platform-dx/web-features-explorer, [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3) for creating the Backlog Dashboard,  [Joshua Chen](https://github.com/Josh-Cena) for helping with the missing form-related API docs, [Yash Raj Bharti](https://github.com/yashrajbharti) for tackling the missing SVG API properties and methods, [Estelle Weyl](https://github.com/estelle) for documenting the other missing features, and all the MDN Maintainers for reviewing the PRs.
```

---
author: "Florian Scholz"
title: "Open Web Docs Impact and Transparency Report 2024"
date: "2025-01-30"
ShowToc: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: false
---

## Executive summary

> Open Web Docs is taking a look at how our efforts have helped to ensure the long-term health of web platform documentation on critical resources like MDN Web Docs, independently of any single vendor or organization. Founded in January 2021, the year 2024 marked Open Web Docs’ fourth year of operation!

Reviewer 2: Maybe, to contextualize this a bit more:

```suggestion
Open Web Docs is taking a look at how our efforts, in 2024, have helped to ensure the long-term health of web platform documentation on critical resources like MDN Web Docs, independently of any single vendor or organization. Founded in January 2021, the year 2024 marked Open Web Docs’ fourth year of operation!
```

- Provided 27% of all pull request reviews to the mdn/content repository and 52% of reviews to mdn/browser-compat-data.
- Started to become a maintainer of the [web-platform-dx/web-features](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features) repo and contributed 14.8% of merged pull requests.
- Completed major technical writing and documentation engineering projects which were determined and guided by OWD’s [Steering Committee](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/steering-committee/membership-expectations.md). This included among other things:
  - [Collecting browser compatibility data whenever browsers release a new beta version](#collecting-browser-compatibility-data-whenever-browsers-release-a-new-beta-version)
  - [Documentation for interoperable and widely available features](#documentation-for-interoperable-and-widely-available-features)
  - [W3C WebDX web-features mapping of BCD keys into baseline features](#w3c-webdx-web-features-mapping-of-bcd-keys-into-baseline-features)

>   - [Replacing all "true" and "null" versions with real version numbers in BCD](#replacing-all-true-and-null-versions-with-real-version-numbers-in-bcd)

Reviewer 3: this one stands out as non very relatable to if you're not deep into BCD. I think formulating it as providing more accurate historical support data (maybe tying it to baseline calculations?) would be more understanable

>   - [Web Security docs for MDN](#web-security-docs-for-mdn)

Reviewer 3: maybe be a tad more specific about what OWD did to these docs

  - [Updated Fetch documentation](#updated-fetch-documentation)
  - [WebView compatibility data](#webview-compatibility-data)
- Secured a second round of [investment from the Sovereign Tech Fund](https://openwebdocs.org/content/posts/sovereign-tech-fund/) to implement improved tooling and maintenance of the [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data) project and development of the [openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector](https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector) tool.

Previous Open Web Docs Impact and Transparency Reports: [2023](https://openwebdocs.org/content/reports/2023/), [2022](https://openwebdocs.org/content/reports/2022/), [2021](https://openwebdocs.org/content/reports/2021/).

<div class="callout">

> <p>Open Web Docs is a non-profit, strongly community-focused open source collective that uses its donations to employ a group of technical writers who are dedicated to writing and improving documentation for the web platform.</p>

Reviewer 2: Minor, but you might be able to drop the `<p>` HTML tagging here by just adding an empty line:

```suggestion

Open Web Docs is a non-profit, strongly community-focused open source collective that uses its donations to employ a group of technical writers who are dedicated to writing and improving documentation for the web platform.
```

Donate today:

- <a href="https://github.com/sponsors/openwebdocs">GitHub Sponsors</a>

> - <a href="https://opencollective.com/open-web-docs">Open Collective</a>

Reviewer 2: MD tagging should work for those links, right?

Also, tell your company to support us with a membership!
As a [member organization](https://openwebdocs.org/membership) you are entitled to further benefits in addition to supporting core web platform documentation and engineering. Reach out to [florian@openwebdocs.org](mailto:florian@openwebdocs.org) for more information.

</div>

## OWD maintainership by the numbers

In 2024, Open Web Docs continued to work on improving and maintaining the following four essential projects for the web platform documentation ecosystem:

- [mdn/content](https://github.com/mdn/content)
- [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data)
- [openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector](https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector)
- [web-platform-dx/web-features](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features)

> Documentation about open web standards needs ongoing updating and maintenance as new web platform features are introduced and best practices change. We believe all of the above projects are essential information sources that web developers consult and trust on a daily basis. OWD believes that by contributing to these repositories, we have the biggest impact on open web platform documentation and we reach the majority of web developers worldwide.

Reviewer 3: web-features is mentioned in several places in the report, but is a new thing in 2024 - maybe this would be the right place to introduce what it is, and why OWD determined it's a useful conduit to its mission.

| Project                 | Total authored PRs | OWD authored PRs |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | ---------------- |
| mdn/content             | 3907               | 551 (14.1%)      |
| mdn/browser-compat-data | 2034               | 1066 (52.4%)     |
| webdx/web-features      | 1150               | 170 (14.8%)      |

### Pull requests reviewed

As in previous years, there's a very long tail of contributors and a thriving community actively involved with our work. For mdn/content, we group all contributors into three categories: one-timers, casual contributors (2-9 PRs) and core contributors (10+ PRs). The 2024 breakdown looks like this:

- 708 contributors had 1 PR merged.
- 166 contributors had 2-9 PRs merged.
- 44 contributors had 10 or more PRs merged.

Supporting this long tail of volunteers is a large part of OWD's work. PR reviews for the mdn/content repository are performed by members of the maintainer group, which consists of OWD staff, Mozilla, Google and Microsoft staff, W3C staff, and a select group of volunteer maintainers.

> Special shout outs to volunteer reviewer [Josh-Cena](https://github.com/Josh-Cena), who alone took on 18.3% of reviews in 2024 for mdn/content, and to [Daniel D. Beck](https://github.com/ddbeck) who reviewed more than half (56.4%) of all web-features pull requests in 2024. A pleasure to work with both of you and your impact in 2024 on these two projects is very noteworthy! Thank you!

Reviewer 3: s/you/them/ ? (the report is not addressed to them afaik :)

> Special shout outs to volunteer reviewer [Josh-Cena](https://github.com/Josh-Cena), who alone took on 18.3% of reviews in 2024 for mdn/content, and to [Daniel D. Beck](https://github.com/ddbeck) who reviewed more than half (56.4%) of all web-features pull requests in 2024. A pleasure to work with both of you and your impact in 2024 on these two projects is very noteworthy! Thank you!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Special shout outs to volunteer reviewer [Joshua Chen](https://github.com/Josh-Cena), who alone took on 18.3% of reviews in 2024 for mdn/content, and to [Daniel D. Beck](https://github.com/ddbeck) who reviewed more than half (56.4%) of all web-features pull requests in 2024. A pleasure to work with both of you and your impact in 2024 on these two projects is very noteworthy! Thank you!
```

(I asked Josh how he would like me to name him for the Fetch bit)

Here's the summary of reviewed PRs:

| Project                 | Total reviewed PRs | OWD reviewed PRs |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | ---------------- |
| mdn/content             | 4595               | 1254 (27.3%)     |
| mdn/browser-compat-data | 2209               | 1154 (52.3%)     |
| webdx/web-features      | 1961               | 135 (6.9%)       |

## Sovereign Tech Fund

> Open Web Docs is very proud to have received a second round investment from the Sovereign Tech Fund at the beginning of 2024. The [Sovereign Tech Fund (STF)](https://www.sovereign.tech/programs/fund) supports the development, improvement, and maintenance of open digital infrastructure in the public interest. The [Sovereign Tech Fund’s Contribute Back Challenges](https://www.sovereign.tech/programs/challenges) selected Open Web Docs as a partner to implement improved tooling and maintenance of the [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data) and further development of the [openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector](https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector) tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open Web Docs is very proud to have received a second round of investment from the Sovereign Tech Fund at the beginning of 2024. The [Sovereign Tech Fund (STF)](https://www.sovereign.tech/programs/fund) supports the development, improvement, and maintenance of open digital infrastructure in the public interest. The [Sovereign Tech Fund’s Contribute Back Challenges](https://www.sovereign.tech/programs/challenges) selected Open Web Docs as a partner to implement improved tooling and maintenance of the [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data) and further development of the [openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector](https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector) tool.
```

> As part of this program, that continued from the first round in 2023, we completed key milestones:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of this program, we continued the work started during from the first round, in 2023, by completing these key milestones:
```

> - Open Web Docs (OWD) automated browser compatibility data updates using OWD’s [mdn-bcd-collector](https://github.com/openwebdocs/mdn-bcd-collector) project. Now, browser compatibility information is available to web developers for new browser releases faster than ever.

Reviewer 3: re faster than ever, can we be more specific? (e.g. one week after the release on average?)

> - OWD automatically detects added and removed browser features for 90.15% of the entire web platform when a new browser is released. The data is recorded in the open-source [BCD](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data) project, which is used by tools commonly used by web developers, such as [CanIUse, MDN Web Docs, and used by](https://caniuse.com/) [Baseline](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Baseline/Compatibility) and [web-features](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- OWD automatically detects added and removed browser features for 90.15% of the entire web platform when a new browser is released. The data is recorded in the open-source [BCD](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data) project, which is used by tools commonly used by web developers, such as [CanIUse](https://caniuse.com/), MDN Web Docs, and is the key data source for [Baseline](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Baseline/Compatibility) and [web-features](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features).
```

- OWD runs tests on mobile browsers and WebViews to have accurate compatibility data for these platforms and to point out differences between mobile and desktop browsers.

> - We also made our tooling more generally available, so that new tools, such as [runtime-compat-data](https://runtime-compat.unjs.io/) can display compatibility across different JavaScript runtimes. We hope that our work on this data will contribute to better understanding of compatibility issues, to more interoperability, and better standardization on the web platform.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We also made our tooling more generally available, so that new tools, such as [runtime-compat-data](https://runtime-compat.unjs.io/) can display compatibility across different JavaScript runtimes. We are proud that our work on this data contributes to better understanding of compatibility issues, to more interoperability, and better standardization on the web platform.
```

> ## **OWD project work**

Reviewer 2: Headings are already bold.

```suggestion
## OWD project work
```

The Open Web Docs [Steering Committee](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/steering-committee/membership-expectations.md) meets on a weekly basis to determine project work for OWD's technical writing staff. The Steering Committee is guided by the [OWD prioritization criteria](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/steering-committee/prioritization-criteria.md) and OWD’s [charter](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/charter.md). We prioritize based on the needs of the global community of web developers and designers. The [project proposal submission](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/new/choose) process is open to everyone, with proposals reviewed by the Steering Committee.

Some of the major projects Open Web Docs completed in 2024 were:

### Collecting browser compatibility data whenever browsers release a new beta version

> This project has initially been funded by the [Sovereign Tech Fund](#sovereign-tech-fund) with the goal to provide web developers with the latest information about available web platform features whenever a new browser version is released and continues thanks to OWD's main sponsors Google and Microsoft. In 2024, we observed 11 releases from Chrome, 12 from Firefox, and 7 from Safari. We systematically collected compatibility data 30 times in 2024.

Reviewer 2: Since you mention Microsoft, it feels odd not mentioning Edge in the number of observed releases:

```suggestion
This project has initially been funded by the [Sovereign Tech Fund](#sovereign-tech-fund) with the goal to provide web developers with the latest information about available web platform features whenever a new browser version is released and continues thanks to OWD's main sponsors Google and Microsoft. In 2024, we observed 11 releases from Chrome (applying to Edge too), 12 from Firefox, and 7 from Safari. We systematically collected compatibility data 30 times in 2024.
```

> This project has initially been funded by the [Sovereign Tech Fund](#sovereign-tech-fund) with the goal to provide web developers with the latest information about available web platform features whenever a new browser version is released and continues thanks to OWD's main sponsors Google and Microsoft. In 2024, we observed 11 releases from Chrome, 12 from Firefox, and 7 from Safari. We systematically collected compatibility data 30 times in 2024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This BCD Automation project has initially been funded by the [Sovereign Tech Fund](#sovereign-tech-fund) with the goal to provide web developers with the latest information about available web platform features whenever a new browser version is released and continues thanks to OWD's main sponsors Google and Microsoft. In 2024, we observed 11 releases from Chrome, 12 from Firefox, and 7 from Safari. We systematically collected compatibility data 30 times in 2024.
```

Reviewer: We should have consistent names for all our projects. The name should be in the first paragraph of each section. If the h2 disappears (or isn't read) at the top of the section, the article should be complete without it.

> For Chrome 122-132, Firefox 123-134, and Safari 17.4-18.3 we were able to update browser compat data within the beta cycles of the browser releases, so that web developers were provided with updated information at the time these browsers released the stable version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Chrome 122-132, Firefox 123-134, and Safari 17.4-18.3, we were able to update browser compatibility data within the beta cycles of each browser release. This enabled us to provide web developers with updated information as every stable browser version was released.
```

> 2024 was the first year we systematically collected web platform compatibility data and we want to continue this effort and make it as efficient as possible for the years and browser releases to come. The maintenance of the mdn-browser-compat-data project has highly benefited from this and the data is much more reliable allowing data consumers, especially the web-features and baseline projects, to be most up-to-date and accurate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2024 was the first year we systematically collected web platform compatibility data. We want to continue this effort and make it as timely and efficient as possible for every browser release for all the years to come. The maintenance of the mdn-browser-compat-data project benefits greatly from these efforts, and the data is accurate, reliable, and complete, which allows the consumers of the data, especially MDN, web-features, and the Baseline projects, to be up-to-date and accurate.
```

> The project is led by [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3) and representatives of browser projects have been reviewing data. Thank you: [Philip Jägenstedt](https://github.com/foolip) (Chromium/Google), [Rachel Andrew](https://github.com/rachelandrew) (Chromium/Google), [Chris Mills](https://github.com/chrisdavidmills) (Chromium/Google), [Patrick Brosset](https://github.com/captainbrosset/) (Chromium/Microsoft), [Jon Davis](https://github.com/jdatapple) (WebKit/Apple), [Jen Simmons](https://github.com/jensimmons) (WebKit/Apple), [Ruth John](https://github.com/Rumyra) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Brian Smith](https://github.com/bsmth) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Hamish Willee](https://github.com/hamishwillee) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Claas Augner](https://github.com/caugner) (Gecko/Mozilla).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BCD Automation project is led by [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3) and representatives of browser projects have been reviewing data. Thank you: [Philip Jägenstedt](https://github.com/foolip) (Chromium/Google), [Rachel Andrew](https://github.com/rachelandrew) (Chromium/Google), [Chris Mills](https://github.com/chrisdavidmills) (Chromium/Google), [Patrick Brosset](https://github.com/captainbrosset/) (Chromium/Microsoft), [Jon Davis](https://github.com/jdatapple) (WebKit/Apple), [Jen Simmons](https://github.com/jensimmons) (WebKit/Apple), [Ruth John](https://github.com/Rumyra) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Brian Smith](https://github.com/bsmth) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Hamish Willee](https://github.com/hamishwillee) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Claas Augner](https://github.com/caugner) (Gecko/Mozilla).
```

### Documentation for interoperable and widely available features

TBD @estelle

Mention our new backlog dashboard https://openwebdocs.github.io/web-docs-backlog/

### W3C WebDX web-features mapping of BCD keys into baseline features

As of writing this report, there are about 15,000 browser-compat-data keys that describe features of the web platform. In 2024, the W3C WebDX web-features project went on a mission to map all of these keys into [web-features](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features) to build a shared catalog of features of the web platform.

> By creating a common nomenclature for web platform features, web-features intends to support communication between web developers, browser vendors, standardization bodies, and other ecosystem participants. From Array to Cascade Layers to Offscreen Canvas, web-features identifies, defines, and categorizes capabilities of the web platform that web developers care about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By creating a common nomenclature for web platform features, the web-features project supports improved communication between web developers, browser vendors, standardization bodies, and other ecosystem participants. From Array to Cascade Layers to Offscreen Canvas, the web-features project identifies, defines, and categorizes the capabilities of the web platform that web developers care about.
```

> This work has been fantastic team work with a group of people contracted by Google, including Open Web Docs, [James Stuckey Weber](https://github.com/jamesnw/) from [Oddbird](https://www.oddbird.net/), [Dietrich Ayala](https://github.com/autonome), [Daniel D. Beck](https://github.com/ddbeck), and [Kadir Topal](https://github.com/atopal). It was great fun and memories from the [BCD migration from wiki tables to JSON data](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2018/02/mdn-browser-compatibility-data/) came back as we were [tracking our progress](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/issues/788) over the last few months.
> 
> We also provided synchronization of browser-compat-data keys between the mdn/browser-compat-data and web-platform-dx/web-features repositories and made sure that the two projects sync up nicely and complement each other effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

OWD provided synchronization of browser-compat-data keys between the mdn/browser-compat-data and web-platform-dx/web-features repositories, ensuring the two projects sync up nicely and complement each other effectively.

This project was a fantastic collaboration between the group of people contracted by Google, including Open Web Docs, [James Stuckey Weber](https://github.com/jamesnw/) from [Oddbird](https://www.oddbird.net/), [Dietrich Ayala](https://github.com/autonome), [Daniel D. Beck](https://github.com/ddbeck), and [Kadir Topal](https://github.com/atopal). Memories from the [BCD migration from wiki tables to JSON data](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2018/02/mdn-browser-compatibility-data/) came back as we were [tracking our progress](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features/issues/788) over the last few months. It was great fun!
```

### Replacing all "true" and "null" versions with real version numbers in BCD

> In [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data), we used to set the version number to "true" whenever we know that a web platform feature is supported in a browser but we don't know which was the first version that introduced support. Also, when a features' support was entirely unknown, we used to set the version number to "null". This meant that the compatibility data was quite incomplete and not always useful to data consumers. Especially the calculation of baseline was not possible with incomplete data.

Reviewer 2: Felt like this was a bit hard to parse, here's an alternate version:

```suggestion
Previously, the [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data) project used to have incomplete browser version numbers. Features that were supported but for which we didn't know the first browser version that introduced support was, had a version number set to "true". And features for which support was entirely unknown had a version number set to "null". This meant that the compatibility data was incomplete and not always useful to consumers. In particular, the calculation of the Baseline status was not possible with incomplete data.
```

> Thanks to a 2024 project led by [Queen Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu](https://github.com/queengooborg) and [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3), BCD no longer has "true" and "null" values. All data in BCD now comes with a real version number or at least a [ranged version number](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/blob/main/schemas/compat-data-schema.md#ranged-versions-).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks to a 2024 project led by [Queen Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu](https://github.com/queengooborg) and [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3), BCD no longer has "true" and "null" values. All data in BCD now comes with, at the very least, a [ranged version number](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/blob/main/schemas/compat-data-schema.md#ranged-versions-), or a real version number.
```

One result of this was an overhaul of the Content Security Policy documentation on MDN. This included a rewrite of the [CSP guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) to align guidance with [OWASP](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Content_Security_Policy_Cheat_Sheet.html) and [web.dev](https://web.dev/articles/strict-csp), to document some of the other protections offered by a CSP in addition to resource loading controls, and to explain better how a CSP can help protect against XSS attacks. We also [rewrote and reorganized the reference documentation for fetch directive syntax](https://github.com/orgs/mdn/discussions/756) to fix many errors and make the syntax easier to understand.

> We've also started writing guide pages about attacks and their mitigations. The first of these was a [guide about cross-side scripting (XSS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS) explaining what it is and how to protect against it in both client- and server-side code, using web platform features such as CSP and [trusted types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS#trusted_types). We've also written a guide about [clickjacking](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/Clickjacking). The next part of this work will be a guide to [cross-site leaks](https://xsleaks.dev/), including mitigations such as [Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy (CORP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy) and [Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy (COOP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've also started writing guide pages about attacks and their mitigations. The first of these was a [guide about cross-side scripting (XSS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS) explaining what it is and how to protect against it in both client- and server-side code, using web platform features such as CSP and [trusted types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS#trusted_types). We've also written a guide about [clickjacking](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/Clickjacking). The next part of this work will be a guide to [cross-site leaks](https://xsleaks.dev/), including mitigations such as [Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy (CORP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy) and [Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy (COOP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy).
```

It would be good to do a global search/replace once the article is final, to remove the `en-us` locale parts of these URLs.

> This project is led by [Will Bamberg](https://github.com/wbamberg). We would like to thank [Daniel Appelquist](https://github.com/torgo) for chairing the SWAG CG and [Aaron Shim](https://github.com/aaronshim) and [Artur Janc](https://github.com/arturjanc) from the Google Security team who sponsored us with $20,000 to support this effort and who participate regularly in SWAG calls to give advice and reviews.

Reviewer 2: If possible, can we link to this particular project financial contribution on opencollective? It's a good example of directed funding which other sponsors might want to imitate.

Author: The sponsorship has not yet reached our open collective, so I don't have a link yet. I giving myself a reminder to update this when the sponsorship is there.

- We also made our tooling more generally available, so that new tools, such as [runtime-compat-data](https://runtime-compat.unjs.io/) can display compatibility across different JavaScript runtimes. We are proud that our work on this data contributes to better understanding of compatibility issues, to more interoperability, and better standardization on the web platform.

## OWD project work

The Open Web Docs [Steering Committee](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/steering-committee/membership-expectations.md) meets on a weekly basis to determine project work for OWD's technical writing staff. The Steering Committee is guided by the [OWD prioritization criteria](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/steering-committee/prioritization-criteria.md) and [OWD’s charter](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/charter.md). OWD efforts are prioritized based on the needs of the global community of web developers and designers. The [OWD project proposal](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/new/choose) process is open to everyone, with proposals reviewed by the Steering Committee.

A few of the major projects Open Web Docs completed in 2024 are:

> ### Collecting browser compatibility data whenever browsers release a new beta version

Author: I think this is too generic, I like the more specific heading better.

The BCD Automation project is led by [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3) and representatives of browser projects have been reviewing data. Thank you: [Philip Jägenstedt](https://github.com/foolip) (Chromium/Google), [Rachel Andrew](https://github.com/rachelandrew) (Chromium/Google), [Chris Mills](https://github.com/chrisdavidmills) (Chromium/Google), [Patrick Brosset](https://github.com/captainbrosset/) (Chromium/Microsoft), [Jon Davis](https://github.com/jdatapple) (WebKit/Apple), [Jen Simmons](https://github.com/jensimmons) (WebKit/Apple), [Ruth John](https://github.com/Rumyra) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Brian Smith](https://github.com/bsmth) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Hamish Willee](https://github.com/hamishwillee) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Claas Augner](https://github.com/caugner) (Gecko/Mozilla).

> ### Documenting all interoperable and widely available browser features
> 
> TBD @estelle
> 
> Mention our new backlog dashboard https://openwebdocs.github.io/web-docs-backlog/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Identify and document missing widely available features

With the belief that web platform documentation is critical digital infrastructure and a goal of ensure its long-term health, OWD wanted to ensure that all web features are fully documented. When a feature is not documented on MDN, any links to that feature are deactivated and made red. There are red links on MDN. The goal of the missing widely available features was two-fold: identify the missing features, then document them.

Thanks to the web-features project and browser compat, the team at OWD forked the [WebDX Web Features Explorer](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features-explorer) and created a [backlog dashboard](https://openwebdocs.github.io/web-docs-backlog/) of web features with missing documentation, with the ability to categorize each feature by Baseline status. The most important features to document are features supported in all browsers, which includes _Baseline newly available_ and _Baseline widely available_ and. A feature is defined as "newly" available when all the Baseline browsers start supporting it. It becomes "widely" available once it has been supported in all Baseline browsers for at least 30 months (2.5 years).

Through the dashboard, we identified 600 Baseline widely available web features not documented on MDN. The OWD team and volunteers documented 591 of these. The remaining nine missing widely available features are WebAssembly features. OWD first addressed the 133 [missing form-related API docs](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/213). We then documented the remaining 458 missing featueres, including [missing DOMMatrix, DOMShapes, Error Events, and SVG interface features](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/214).

OWD would like to thank the WebDX Community Group, specifically [Patrick Brosset](https://github.com/captainbrosset/), for the web-platform-dx/web-features-explorer, [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3) for creating the Backlog Dashboard,  [Yash Raj Bharti](https://github.com/yashrajbharti) for tackling the missing SVG API properties and methods, [Estelle Weyl](https://github.com/estelle) for documenting the other missing features, and all the MDN Maintainers for reviewing the PRs. 
```

### Updated compat data to include browser support version numbers for all features

Previously, the [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data) project used to have incomplete browser version numbers. Features that were supported but for which we didn't know the first browser version that introduced support was, had a version number set to "true". And features for which support was entirely unknown had a version number set to "null". This meant that the compatibility data was incomplete and not always useful to consumers. In particular, the calculation of the Baseline status was not possible with incomplete data.

Thanks to a 2024 project led by [Queen Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu](https://github.com/queengooborg) and [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3), BCD no longer has "true" and "null" values. All data in BCD now comes with, at the very least, a [ranged version number](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/blob/main/schemas/compat-data-schema.md#ranged-versions-), or a real version number.

### Improving Web Security docs for MDN with the W3C SWAG CG

> One of our major projects in 2024 has been to plan and execute improvements to web security documentation on MDN. The W3C's [Secure the Web Forward](https://www.w3.org/2023/03/secure-the-web-forward/report.html) workshop concluded that documentation plays a major role in promoting security best practices and in helping web application developers understand security threats and mitigations. In June 2024 the [Security Web Application Guidelines Community Group (SWAG CG)](https://www.w3.org/community/swag/) was created to develop security guidelines for web application developers. The OWD team has regularly participated in the SWAG CG to identify areas where we need better web security documentation and to get guidance form experts about current best practices.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
One of our major projects in 2024 has been to plan and execute improvements to web security documentation on MDN. The W3C's [Secure the Web Forward](https://www.w3.org/2023/03/secure-the-web-forward/report.html) workshop concluded that documentation plays a major role in promoting security best practices and in helping web application developers understand security threats and mitigations. In June 2024 the [Security Web Application Guidelines Community Group (SWAG CG)](https://www.w3.org/community/swag/) was created to develop security guidelines for web application developers. The OWD team has regularly participated in the SWAG CG to identify areas where we need better web security documentation and to get guidance from experts about current best practices.
```

The BCD Automation project is led by [Florian Scholz](https://github.com/Elchi3) and representatives of browser projects have been reviewing data. Thank you: [Philip Jägenstedt](https://github.com/foolip) (Chromium/Google), [Rachel Andrew](https://github.com/rachelandrew) (Chromium/Google), [Chris Mills](https://github.com/chrisdavidmills) (Chromium/Google), [Patrick Brosset](https://github.com/captainbrosset/) (Chromium/Microsoft), [Jon Davis](https://github.com/jdatapple) (WebKit/Apple), [Jen Simmons](https://github.com/jensimmons) (WebKit/Apple), [Ruth John](https://github.com/Rumyra) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Brian Smith](https://github.com/bsmth) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Hamish Willee](https://github.com/hamishwillee) (Gecko/Mozilla), [Claas Augner](https://github.com/caugner) (Gecko/Mozilla).

### Identify and document missing widely available features

> With the belief that web platform documentation is critical digital infrastructure and a goal of ensure its long-term health, OWD wanted to ensure that all web features are fully documented. When a feature is not documented on MDN, any links to that feature are deactivated and made red. There are red links on MDN. The goal of the missing widely available features was two-fold: identify the missing features, then document them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the belief that web platform documentation is critical digital infrastructure and a goal of ensure its long-term health, OWD wanted to ensure that all web features were fully documented. When a feature is not documented on MDN, any links to that feature are deactivated and rendered in red. There were several red links on MDN. The goal of the missing widely available features was two-fold: to identify the missing features and then document them.
```

Thanks to the web-features project and browser compat, the team at OWD forked the [WebDX Web Features Explorer](https://github.com/web-platform-dx/web-features-explorer) and created a [backlog dashboard](https://openwebdocs.github.io/web-docs-backlog/) of web features with missing documentation, with the ability to categorize each feature by Baseline status. The most important features to document are features supported in all browsers, which includes _Baseline newly available_ and _Baseline widely available_ and. A feature is defined as "newly" available when all the Baseline browsers start supporting it. It becomes "widely" available once it has been supported in all Baseline browsers for at least 30 months (2.5 years).

> Through the dashboard, we identified 600 Baseline widely available web features not documented on MDN. The OWD team and volunteers documented 591 of these. The remaining nine missing widely available features are WebAssembly features. OWD first addressed the 133 [missing form-related API docs](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/213). We then documented the remaining 458 missing featueres, including [missing DOMMatrix, DOMShapes, Error Events, and SVG interface features](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/214).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through the dashboard, we identified 600 Baseline widely available web features that have BCD data but are not documented on MDN. The OWD team and volunteers documented 591 of these. The remaining nine missing widely available features are WebAssembly features. OWD first addressed the 133 [missing form-related API docs](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/213). We then documented the remaining 458 missing features, including [missing DOMMatrix, DOMShapes, Error Events, and SVG interface features](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/issues/214). A total of 591 additional pages were added to MDN, documenting all the missing non-webAssembly Baseline widely available features. At the time of this writing, there are still a few PRs left to merge, but the pages are written!
```

Adding an explanation to the existing Fetch guide was not straightforward, because the existing guide was so disorganized: people had incrementally added bits to it over the years without considering how they could fit together. So we reorganized the guide, adding not just a section about [streaming responses](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API/Using_Fetch#streaming_the_response_body) but also sections on other important aspects of Fetch like [making cross-origin requests](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API/Using_Fetch#making_cross-origin_requests) and [including credentials](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API/Using_Fetch#including_credentials).

After that was in place, we could [update the `Response` reference to document exceptions properly](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/34576), and close the original issue along with a whole slew of others.

Many thanks to [Joshua Chen](https://github.com/Josh-Cena) and [Mike Smith](https://github.com/sideshowbarker) for their careful and expert reviews as we navigated this tricky bit of work!

### WebView compatibility data

> In 2024, Open Web Docs joined the [W3C WebView Community Group](https://github.com/WebView-CG). Together with the group participants, we started investigating compatibility for WebViews. Historically, BCD only contained Chrome Android WebView data but in 2024 we added WebView on iOS data and helped launching https://caniwebview.com/. This collaboration was led by Florian Scholz and you can find more information in the [WebView CG 2024 recap](https://caniwebview.com/news/2024-12-06-WebView-Community-Group-Recap/). Shoutout to [Niklas Merz](https://github.com/NiklasMerz) and [Ben Wiser](https://github.com/RupertBenWiser) for being the driving forces here!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2024, Open Web Docs joined the [W3C WebView Community Group](https://github.com/WebView-CG). Together with the group participants, we started investigating compatibility for WebViews. Historically, BCD only contained Chrome Android WebView data, but in 2024, we added WebView on iOS data and helped launch <https://caniwebview.com>. This collaboration was led by Florian Scholz. You can find more information in the [WebView CG 2024 recap](https://caniwebview.com/news/2024-12-06-WebView-Community-Group-Recap/). Shoutout to [Niklas Merz](https://github.com/NiklasMerz) and [Ben Wiser](https://github.com/RupertBenWiser) for being the driving forces here!
```

Open Web Docs also contracted with Google in 2024, for a total of $90,000, to work on the W3C web-features project to map BCD keys into baseline features.

We are also very thankful to Aaron Shim and Artur Janc from the Google Security team who sponsored our Web Security docs project with $20,000.

Payroll is Open Web Docs’ only meaningful expense. We pay competitive salaries in our staff's local currency, and receive health care and other regionally compliant benefits. In 2024, OWD spent a total of $XXXXX on payroll, inclusive of contractors, taxes, wire fees, exchange fees and payroll services. Minor operating expenses ($XXk) and transaction fees on collective revenue ($XXk) account for the balance of OWD expenses. We post all transactions on our [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/open-web-docs) page.

## 2025 Financial Forecast

For 2025, the following sponsorships have been committed:

- $250,000 has been committed by Platinum sponsor Google
- $250,000 has been committed by Platinum sponsor Microsoft
- $25,000 has been committed by Gold sponsor Bloomberg
- $20,000 has been committed by Gold sponsor Igalia.

> About $10,000 is anticipated to come from individual Open Collective and GitHub Sponsors for a total of $555,000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
About $10,000 is anticipated to come from individual donors through Open Collective and GitHub Sponsors for a total of $555,000.
```

Open Web Docs is actively looking for additional sponsors in 2025 in order to continue our project work at full capacity. Becoming a supporting member of Open Web Docs offers benefits in addition to supporting core web platform documentation and engineering. Email [florian@openwebdocs.org](mailto:florian@openwebdocs.org) for more information.

## Thank you to Mozilla and Smashing Magazine

> In December 2024, we put advertisements to promote Open Web Docs on MDN Web Docs, Smashing Magazine and in the Smashing Magazine newsletters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In December 2024, advertisements promoting Open Web Docs appeared on MDN Web Docs, Smashing Magazine, and in Smashing Magazine newsletters. These ad placements were donated by Mozilla and Smashing Magazine.
```

We would like to thank [Hermina Condei](https://github.com/HerminaC), [Sonal Sood](https://github.com/s-sood), [Anuja Rajput](https://github.com/AnujaRajput727) from the Mozilla MDN team and [Mariona Jones](https://marionajones.net) and [Vitaly Friedman](https://github.com/vitalyfriedman) from Smashing Magazine for helping to spread the word about Open Web Docs. The ad spaces are offered to us for free and they promoted our [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/openwebdocs) program. Extended thank you also to [Patrick Brosset](https://github.com/captainbrosset) for connecting us and working on copy texts and creative designs which turned out great:

![Ad banner on Smashing Magazine](owd_ad_smashing.png) ![Ad banner on MDN Web Docs](owd_ad_mozilla.png)

## Gratitude for our Individual Supporters in 2024

Thank you to each and everyone who supports us with recurring or one-time donations! Your sponsorship means the world to us!

### Individual supporters

> Huge thanks to all the individuals who support us with a recurring monthly donation of $10 or more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Huge thanks to all the individuals who support us with a recurring monthly donation of $10 or more via [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/open-web-docs#category-CONTRIBUTE)!
```

### GitHub Sponsors

And of course, thank you to all of Open Web Docs' [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/openwebdocs)!

  <iframe
    src="https://github.com/sponsors/openwebdocs/card"
    title="Sponsor openwebdocs"
    height="225"
    width="500"
    style="border: 0"
  ></iframe>

## Looking forward to 2025

We’re inviting all of our partners and backers for another year of supporting web platform documentation for the benefit of web developers & designers worldwide. We aim to continue with our [mission](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/charter.md) and foster collaborations with existing initiatives to improve the general developer experience for people developing for the web. We consider web platform docs critical digital infrastructure, and we work cooperatively to ensure its long-term health.

We are funded by corporate and individual donations. If your organization or project is interested in advancing open web platform documentation, we would love to hear from you! Please reach out to [florian@openwebdocs.org](mailto:florian@openwebdocs.org).

> ![OWD team in 2024](owd_team_2024.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![The OWD team: Florian Scholz, Queen Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu, William Bamberg, and Estelle Weyl](owd_team_2024.png)
```
